The Joe Rogan experience, we got to stop doing that with dolphins and orcas.
It's going to be thought of the same way we think about slavery today.
It's that it's horrific. We can't understand that.
And we can't believe that compassionate human beings would be willing to
isolate members of a super social,
highly intelligent animal species and just put them in swimming pools.
It's barbaric. It's crazy. It's torture. It's it's,
what's sad.
Here is, you know, we're years removed from the documentary Blackfish and,
you know, that was really impactful. I mean,
arguably responsible for the paradigm shift that we're,
that we're experiencing here in north America and other places, of course. Um,
but maybe it's time for people to revisit it. I know SeaWorld, uh,
their stock and their value is sort of going up now, granted, they, you know,
they changed their numbers, they skew it. They have free beer day.
They pumped the numbers up, you know, they have all these different promotions,
whatever. I mean, everything that comes out of these, these facilities,
these assume it to be all by the way that it's all,
but none of people questioned them on it.
But as we speak while we're amidst sort of a paradigm shift here and, uh,
I mean, I can speak to it because I mean,
I'm very happy to say that we have very effectively decimated Marine land.
And we'll talk more about that. But, uh, over in China,
this is now a burgeoning business and I, and I did,
we discussed this a year and a half ago and it's,
it's tenfold now it's happening very quickly and I'm sure you're familiar with
the whale jail situation in Russia. Have you seen that? No, I have not.
They've got, uh, enclosed in this bay.
They've got over a hundred wild cut Balugas and
orcas. So there's about 10 orchids if I'm not mistaken. And uh,
some activists flew a drone over it.
This got worldwide attention, a lot of outcry, a lot of, uh,
anger of course. Um, so what happened was Jamie.
To us right now for the folks that are listening and we're looking down at the,
what looks like swimming pools with, uh, I guess those are belugas.
Those have all been sold. Those are essentially sold and ready to go to China.
Uh, but on account of the fact that the activists got this and created a real
worldwide stink, um, all the negative press that came of it, uh,
they've now resolved that they want to try to, well they've,
they've hard considered, uh, releases. Um,
the governor in the area signed a intent to release agreement with the
world sank, uh, with the whale sanctuary project, uh,
who sent a team to assess the animal's health and whatnot.
And this was all of like three weeks ago.
It's not a long time ago and they assessed that all these animals should be
released. There's a couple of issues. There's a couple of things that,
that are becoming conflicting.
A it's going to require a lot of costs if it's done responsibly,
be it appears. Okay. So what's happened is, as we know,
Russia's not exactly a democratic, uh, environment.
Only one person makes the decisions on account of what becomes of these whales.
Whereas there was some PR stunts to say, Hey, we're going to,
we want to release them.
We want to do this to sort of mitigate the global outrage.
The captors have propagandize this entire effort to free these whales
as a means for the west to undermine the Russia's Russia's economy.
So the whale trade economy,
here's where Marine land comes into play in a, in a theory at this point,
but it has these very intense implications.
What we know about what Marine land is doing currently in their transition from
brilliantly successful business to virtually decimated, thank you,
um, is they're shipping their whales out. We know too,
um, are going out if it's not this week, it'll be very soon.
I'll be shocked if they're not out I'm in LA.
So I can't say that it's happening right now.
I think it may very well be happening this week. They're going to Spain.
We know that five other permits have been, uh,
requested to send these animals now to the states.
So it was that they're liquidating. They're the, yeah,
they're going through liquidating. But the issue is
if in fact Russia catches wind, that Marine land is sent sending their whales.
Let's use the worst case scenario to China.
It validates the Russian captors,
propaganda and concerns.
Suddenly what we're concerned is going to happen is those animals suddenly Putin
says, forget it, sell them, ship them out. That's that's a scenario,
but why would he do that? Because again,
the captors are propagandized that the west wants to cripple the Russia's
economy, that they're wild whale sale economy.
So if some Marine land is selling whales to China from Canada,
then suddenly the captains have a point. They'll say the Putin look there,
they're selling whales.
Why is it such an outrage that Russia is doing it when Marine lands doing it?
So there's that concern? The other one,
and this just came up within the last 20 hours,
is it appears rather than go the most responsible route,
which we know is going to be a costly endeavor, but you know,
we're game and we're ready is, uh,
they're now considering just dropping the nets and saying, see you later.
And letting all the animals go. Here's what we suspect.
They're going to let the orcas go because they were captured illegally. Uh,
there's some gray area as to whether the beluga whales have been captured
illegally or not.
So I think it'll probably start with the orcas rather than move them to where
they were at the same time of year, uh,
when they were captured so that they can be next to their P their trends, uh,
transient pods are they're they're they're, um, they're pods.
They just want to drop this, this net and say, see you later. Well,
that's as irresponsible as it can get, but that's crazy.
That's like making someone.
A slave for how many years, a year, somewhere on the planet.
But imagine there hope you can imagine it would be, oh, see it didn't work. Oh,
Jesus. There's a lot of, uh, there's. This is a big issue. Uh, we're on it.
There's a, there's a great team of activists over there.
Would it be accurate to say that maybe what these groups are doing
right now is recognizing that there's probably going to be some radical changes
in the way these things are permitted, what's legal,
what's not legal and what people are tolerating.
It's just not the same as it was 10 years ago,
catch them and sell them as fast as you can just get out while you can,
because it might come a point in time when not only could they not sell it,
but they might be responsible for doing exactly what you said and bringing you
back to the area where it's family would be it, which would.
Be an incredible cost. It has been incredible cost.
It would be an undertaking unlike any other rescue, uh, that we know of. And,
uh, how much would something like that cost? I can't even imagine. I mean,
I would be the wrong person to ask. I can't put a figure on it.
I just know that it would take a lot of time. Uh, it,
it would be a lot of dedicated, uh, I mean, we would need.
The pod. Yeah. You'd have to figure it out.
That would be able to bring the whales out. I mean.
To be able to somehow or another,
get it close enough to the other worlds without freaking them out. It's.
A whole thing, but it's possible. I mean, that's the important part.
Man. The whole,
it's just one of those things that I really think has people we're going to look
back on and we're going to go, man,
how did we in 2019 not know that that was insane.
Does that is not a chicken? You know what I'm saying? I mean,
that's not like something you could just keep in a cage. That's that?
So let's back up to, uh, as you know, it for, well over four and a half years,
five years now,
I've been advocating for bill [inaudible], which is a ban against, uh,
which is a national conduct, Canada wide ban
against a whale and dolphin and porpoise captivity. So that would include no more breeding, no more important, more export any of that. Okay. During these, this, this, by the way, is going down as the longest bill ever researched in Canadian history, because it's been a lot of issues from
, uh,  opposition, uh,
one, one Senator in particular. In fact, if I can have a moment to just give,
uh,
Senator Don plant a big goal, I, when you piece of, which camera do I look at?
So that I win you piece of. So I should, I should be more, was.
That the other guy, the lawyer.
The Senator that has put every possible, um,
block in front of the passage of this bill,
he's tried to kill it silently forever. I mean, this is an epic,
epic story we've had to as activists and the community at large. And again,
I have to stress how much you've had a hand in this is I've had to re I've,
had to have these campaigns where we literally flood the Senate servers to the
point of crashing it on, uh, on a couple of, uh, instant, uh,
instances where they were going to kill the bill,
very silently through a sort of procedures he's got as, uh, his role is a,
it's called the Senate whip.
So he's actually yields a lot of influence and power. He, he, uh,
creates the committees where people do the studies and everything. He sets the,
uh, the dates for the committees. I mean,
he had this thing studied for like 17 straight months was absurd. Again,
longest tenure in a, in a Canadian legislative history. It appears,
but this guy was, you know, doing his, his, uh, so he used to kill.
It. Do you think that w what do you think, why was he doing that?
He's one of these guys, as he looks at this bill and he sees it as a activist,
sort of left wing, liberal,
liberal sort of fluff bill. He doesn't see that it's necessary.
He went to Marine land as an invited guest. Uh, he's very, uh,
publicly declared his friendships for John Holder.
I don't want to speculate as to whether there's been any, uh, money exchanges,
but I know he's certainly very interested in killing this bill and by virtue
alone of activists pressuring and exposing all of his, his efforts,
we actually saved this bill on a number of occasions.
The most notable of which was just a few weeks ago, where, uh,
in the house of commons, it appeared this bill was going to die.
And literally at the 11th hour, I packed up, we drove to Ottawa.
I had a tweet storm set up, we put pressure on,
I tweeted individual senators or rather individual members of, uh,
of parliament. And, uh, I promised them, and you know,
this is a sensitive time in Canadian politics for Justin Trudeau,
the leader of the, of the liberal party.
I promised them if this bill dies on account of the fact that what was happening
was the liberals were going to propose amendments to the bill. Last second,
that would send it back to the Senate for further review.
At which point we know Don Plett was waiting in line to kill it.
There was nothing we could do at this point.
This was going to be his to kill the fact that this was being facilitated by
liberals was really an infuriating thing. But nonetheless,
we applied an incredible amount of pressure. I drove my down there.
I got there and I stood in front of every, which one of them.
And I looked them all in the eyes. I'm just like, I'm going to make you famous.
I'm going to make you famous.
And I'm going to make you famous and I'll make you famous. And, uh,
I don't want to speculate if that's, what if that's what saved the day,
although it was mentioned in the house of commons,
that special interest pressured them at the last second, but in a,
in a last Lazarus.
Can you say that to someone I'm going to make you famous?
I think it's my most, it's my most effective tool.
It's like a scene from, uh, like, uh, the what's that, what are the,
what was the cowboy movie where Val Kilmer played a
doc holiday member tombstone? Yeah, it sounds like a line in tombstone,
right? Oh, no. You know what? It's from? Uh, the one with the Bon Jovi song,
you know, those, those, you know, shot down in a blaze of glory, you know,
you know, those, those, those cute guys in the,
was it the eighties or nineties at all? Like did a Western movie.
Together guns, that's it. It's from that? I'm gonna make you famous. Oh. Sorry.
I knew I had heard it's from somewhere. I think it's from that.
I'd hope. I'd hope. That was my line. But nonetheless it's whatever.
Emilio Estevez,
this was arguably the campy cheesiest of the cowboy
movies. Right? Is it the campaign just today?
I didn't see it. I don't know. They're all handsome devils.
I'm sorry.
So I show up and show up. Literally,
they get them right before the meeting starts.
The entire committee stands up and leaves the room. Now we're,
we're there and we're prepared for this to die. I'm there for a funeral. Uh,
they come back in the conservative members of the committee, uh,
propose their amendments, the liberals, which outweigh the, uh, uh,
the conservatives are, you know, they're all voting.
So they're just knocking these things down, knocking them down,
knocking them down,
and then suddenly it comes to the liberals time to propose their amendments.
First guy comes up and he says,
I'd like to withdraw my amendment nodal on the record, sits down. Okay,
we'll go to number two. I'd like to withdraw. My amendment sits down.
Number three, I'd like to withdraw my amendment. We're like, holy.
I'm looking back. You know, I've got some,
we've got some people there that are obviously of, of the,
with the same interests as me. And, you know,
I don't even know exactly what's going on at this point. I just know that, uh,
their faces are indicative that this, we might win this thing. And the fourth,
uh, member of parliament stands up,
he withdraws the amendment and we save this thing in the last second.
And I absolutely know it was a pressure campaign because like I said,
I was going to come on this podcast.
I'd already had this date written for some time.
And this was going to have political implications that I don't know that the
liberal party could have sustained. It's a really bad time.
I think this came from the top down,
whereas efforts to kill it came from the bottom up. This came from the top down.
You're not killing that bill.
I think people are understanding what dolphin captivity really is,
what Orca captivity really is. I think they're understanding that now.
And I think it's just one of those things that exists because it's always
existed,
but if it didn't exist now there's no way anybody would ever let you do it.
If there was no captive dolphins and orcas,
if someone just went around and kidnapped them with what scientists know now
about their social structure and their community.
Do, they're so complex the way they, they have dialects, right?
It's they have dialects, orcas have, uh, um,
they have,
they share languages in different regions and actually have a different accent
of sorts. I mean, it's, uh, it's really remarkable stuff yet, right?
It would be a global outrage. If today as day one, someone said, Hey,
look at this thing, let's put this in this box because we have them already.
Well,
because we have them in there's some legacy businesses that have been around for
a long time. That's a great way of putting, um, you know,
they have the means to fight. They know now that look,
this is not going so well. If you can, you can see it in all the advertising,
uh, these days, uh, uh,
SeaWorld almost rarely shows any orcas in their commercials.
Although it seems the industry is, uh, sort of switching to baby walruses.
In fact, they're, they're,
they're the new orcas they're sort of the new brandable. Um, yeah, it really is.
It's happening all over. It's happening in Canada as well.
The Vancouver aquarium is running with it. Um, yeah. And same as SeaWorld.
If you go to their, their Twitter, it's, you know,
I can't say that present day it's, it's like literally the case today, but, uh,
yeah, a lot of baby walrus, uh, stuff. It's where it's going. It's just,
they know that they can run with that. At least for the time being
what's crazy in all of this is here. This bill is passing.
Now we know it's going to pass. It's a, it should be,
it should get Royal assent. Uh, come second week of June, uh, shy of some,
some catastrophe, this thing will become law. Um,
that's why Marine land is trying to get rid of these whales as quickly as they
can. They got to get them out of here because at least now they can just, well,
it sounds like to, to, uh, export permits have been approved. So to beluga,
whales are going to Spain. Um, you know,
now granted that's being facilitated through the Vancouver aquarium.
This becomes an ugly mess here because when it comes to zoos,
they're all part of these associations. Okay. And these are,
these are industry voices, anything that's if at any time you're told, well,
this is an ACE at a accredited facility. You know, most schools for instance,
or, or general people would say, oh, well, it's a credit. It's a good place. No,
no, no, no, no. What that means is these places facilitate, uh,
animal transfers, one, not to other member facilities. It's really just a club.
And this club protects, uh,
the interests of these parks and keeps any type of oversight,
lack their lobby groups basically.
So what's happened is now through the Vancouver aquarium Marine lent.
So Marine land is sending these whales to Spain,
but they're claiming them to be Vancouver aquarium, uh, uh, Wales,
which is not true. They were never on these animals inventory,
or rather this facilities inventory list.
There's never been any knowledge of any of this,
but what's happened is because Vancouver aquarium is accredited and has an
affiliation with the ACA. So in Canada we call it Casa.
The Canadian association of zoos and aquarium and Marine land is,
is in fact not, uh, they no longer have their accreditation. They did.
They didn't have the best of relationships shortly after all of our revelations.
Um, it's all just written.
Now it's just the industry as a whole is breaking all of its own rules to
facilitate getting these beluga whales. Marineland has 51 of them. Okay.
There's five born every year, but they always have 51 and they don't,
they haven't shipped an Orca out in nearly a decade at this point. Um, I mean,
you do the math at what's going on. Exactly. So they're dying.
They're always have 51. They don't ship them anywhere else. I can attest that.
Yes. Uh, when I was there and in my experience,
and you don't have to watch my words because I know Marine lens, lawyer,
Andrew Burns is listening. Hi, Andrew, I'll see you next week. Um,
in my experience, uh, yeah, you're uh, for as many animals are born,
you're just about losing as many. So you'll lose two old ones.
You'll lose three young ones, not all the ones that are boring,
it'll be successful just about half are. Um, so,
so what's happening now is the industry wants that bloodline.
There's 51 captive orcas. Whereas, you know,
there's a lot of controversy and importing animals from other places,
the states can't, in fact,
they can't bring them in from Russia without a public consult period.
It might still be the case with Canada.
So actually the public might actually be consulted about the import of these
five belugas that, um, Marine land is seeking permit for it to export.
So that's something that certainly has activist level. I'll be,
I'll be helping to guide towards the proper resolution,
but yeah, that's all happening. It is a race right now to,
to get rid of Marine lens animals. And, uh, I've had,
it is a wild time. It's, it's a wild time to be inside the doors at Marine land,
as I can imagine in the fences. Uh, and it's,
it's a most wild time for me to be on the outside because I've never in the last
six and a half years of,
of litigation and just of my advocacy and being sort of, you know,
basically being engaged in war with Marine land.
I've never seen them work harder to suppress me and
to try to silence me than they are now.